---
layout: post
title: Day 17 to 19 - Rev Engg  
subtitle: playing w/ binaries 
tags: [THM/25DaysXmas2020]
odate: 18-05-2022
fdate: 18-05-2022
pdate: 18-05-2022
---
Assembly language gave me nightmares in college, but there's a kannada proverb. _"Until you learn, it seems to be a god's knowlegde. After you learn it, it's a monkey's knowledge"_

Day 17 `Reverse Engg` \
Materials: Intro to x86-64 assembly language, Instruction set, file usage and manipulation, Binary analysis using radare2 \
The software radare2 is a framework used to rev engg and analyzing binaries. Each command is used to execute step by step to observe the binary behaviour on each step. Assembly language program is read and understood where each line functions as. The flags ask for each register value in different lines.

Day 18 `Reverse Engg` \
Materials: diassembling a .net application using ILSpy or Dotpeek \
Logging into target machine with provided cred using remmina using RDP, there's the ILSpy application shortcut to open. Open TBFC_APP inside using ILSpy and looking into the code writen in C++ using .net framework, the flags are found. The main frame is the window form received when the TBFC_APP is opened. And finding more data inside the numerous classes provides required flags.

Day 19 `Web Exploitation` \
Materials: Server Side Request Forgery \
Guided walkthrough to conduct SSRF attack by changing the hostname, ports, DNS subdomains specified in URL to get different screenshots of internal resources responses.  

### Inference
Looks can be deceiving. I thought looking into assembly langugae will bring back those nightmares but when practically playing with it, looks like this is awesome!