---
layout: post
title: Day 7 to 13 - Networking 
subtitle: Going forward w/ Networking
tags: [THM, 25DaysXmas2020]
odate: 02-05-2022
fdate: 17-05-2022
pdate: 17-05-2022
---
Moving on with other topics in the event, from Web exploitation the limelight is on Networking.

Day 7  `Networking` \
Materials: Protocols, TCP/IP data transfer, 3-way handshake, ip address, wireshark - filtering packets w/ search terms \
Each packet was opened on wireshark and accordingly to each question, the search bar was used to filter out some packets to search for flags. GET method is seen with `HTTP.request.method == GET` filter command and packet details are read to get respective flag. This is the case from 1st and 2nd Packet.
The final question asks about wishlist -> file? the hint says so.
third packet is opened to observe and a packet (no. 395) under HTTP protocol length 10388 bytes has a zip file inside it. Exporting the file under File > Export Objects - HTTP >  christmas.zip \ 
Unzipping it and viewing the file `elf_mcskidy_wishlist.txt`, the final flag is obtained.

Day 8  `Networking` \
Materials: nmap, nse \
ran nmap scans on target machine with options: -Pn to check all open or otherwise ports on machine, -A to enable OS detection for flags in question. Under the same command, the info provided includes `http-title: TBFC&#39;s Internal Blog` in port 80/tcp open -- providing the last flag answer, the type of website it is to be used for: Blog

Day 9  `Networking` \
Materials: FTP file server \
basic walkthrough to access FTP server. Later, breaking in into the server by executing reverse shell script (misusing a misconfig) using the file in the server. 

Day 10  `Networking` \
Materials: samba server \
Starting up the Attackbox VM machine to access the materials write-up. And followed through and ran script and respective command enum4linux with it's options at taregt machine to get respective number of shares and users involved on the server. logged into each share to check which had no passwd. The Share without passwd was found out: tbfc-santa, and files inside was listed to be seen -> to get the dir left by Elf for Santa.  

Day 11  `Networking` \
Materials: priv esc, priv-esc enumeration\
<!--%%Dirtyc0w is a famous linux kernel exploit - will end up crashing the system/unstable state (last resort)%%-->
<!--%%refer numerous materials/cheatsheet to support checklists for enumerating priv esc -- g0tmi1k, payatu, PayloadAllTheThings %%-->
<!--%% command to find all executable with SUID permissions set 
find / -perm -u=s -type f 2>/dev/null %%-->
<!--%% There are scripts that make the action approachable - like LinuEnum, linpeas %%-->
Priv Esc felt nice to play with, which was also what they warned when explaining it. After logging in as the provided user, enumeration had to be done where all the executables with SUID permission to be seen. When the find command to check all the exec bin commands which have super user or root user priviliges, there were many. \
And the instructions were clear on looking at GTFObins too to exploit the binary. the bash exec has a simple command to run as shown from [source](https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/bash/#suid) : `bash -p`  \
which immediately gives root priv.

Day 12  `Networking`\
Materials: metasploit, web server exp - enumeration \
ran a nmap scan on remote host to get the data, on port 8080 there's a service running which is tomcat v9.0.17 which has a CVE called CVE-2019-0232. \
had to install metasploit to run the exploit on target machine \

search in metasploit with `search 2019-0232` and `use 0`: in the provided options 
and setting the config to: 
1. Running the metasploit on the set remote host (rhost) of target by providing the it's IP address
2. `set rhosts $targetIP` and set the lhost IP from wlp2s0 to tun0 (since connected via VPN)
3. `options` and `set targeturi cgi-bin/elfwhacker.bat` and `run` the exploit script here 
4. meterpreter is opened: `shell` to open the shell. It's a windows machine - respective powershell commands must be used to find the flag1.txt file 

Day 13  `Networking` \
Materials: guided CTF \
This was a straightforward guided CTF, where the commands were laid out and intentions clear. PS: I love John Hammond.

### Inference
Just the basics of all the networking concepts are laid out to know how to analyse, enumerate, scan and exploit a network. 

<!--%%comment%%-->
