---
layout: post
title: Day 1 to 6 - Web Exp 
subtitle: Beginning w/ Web exp
tags: [THM, 25DaysXmas2020]
odate: 30-05-2022
fdate: 02-06-2022
pdate: 02-06-2022
---
This was an event on tryhackme for christmas 2020. Getting started w/ cybersecurity with the room, [25 days of Cybersecuirty](https://tryhackme.com/room/learncyberin25days)  to get a general idea about the field. To access the machines for each task in the room, VPN is used. There are tasks provided each day pertaining to a particular topic.

Day 1  `Web Exploitation` \
Material provided: About the web (internet), HTTP(S), Cookies \
Logging in w/ VPN, and accessed the website by it's IP address. Questions in the task are looking for cookies, (in browser tools of course) and reading more into them. and how they can be used to read. Then exploit it and gain access.

Day 2  `Web Exploitation` \
Material provided: GET parameters, URLs, file uploads. reverse shell, reverse shell listeners \
Standard HTTP method called GET and POST is briefed. Reverse shell script can be uploaded and executed as Remote Code Execution (RCE) with a reverse shell listener active. Access is obtained when the shell script is run. reading the required file as shown in question gives the final flag at the terminal with the netcat listener.

Day 3  `Web Exploitation` \
Materials provided: Authentication, default credentials, Dictionary attacks using burpsuite \
Using burpsuite to conduct a dictionary attack using the Intruder tool. Providing a set of keywords as username and password in the Intruder tool when the request is sent to the webpage should authenticate and login. Flag is available inside the account.

Day 4 `Web Exploitation` \
Materials Provided: Fuzzing, Intro to gobuster, wfuzz \
fuzzing is done using gobuster on target machine deployed and given wordlist.
`gobuster dir -u http:/<ip> -w wordlist_path -x .php` >> different dir are listed to be available there. 
more data required on the target machine since a flag has to be obtained, so wfuzz is used to find more about the file.
`wfuzz -c -z file,worlist_path -u http://<ip>/api<file_name>?date=FUZZ `
when the command is run, the parameters obtained will have certain characteristics where one of them were different. when that parameter (here it's a date) is provided as input, flag was obtained.

Day 5 `Web Exploitation` \
Materials Provided: SQL Injection, how they work, Login Bypass with SQLi, Blind SQLi, Union SQLi, SQLMap & BurpSuite \
simple bypass command is used to bypass login. `admin' or 1=1 --` 
burpsuite intercept is turned on and a random request is sent to capture the request packet.
sqlmap is run with the intercept data to dump data (provided here how to bypass the web-app firewall and database ms used is sqlite). Data obtained from the command result answers for each question are as seen in database.

Day 6 `Web Exploitation` \
Materials Provided: XSS, types, how to detect, mitigate \
answering some questions in this section are straight forward. OWASP ZAP application is launched and an automated scan is run on the target machine. Scan report is referred to answer other questions.

### Inference
Each room is a simple space where each type of Web Exploit is shown everyday. I know I will never face them in such a basic and simple form yet It's a great introduction to each exploit.
