---
layout: post
title: Bandit OverTheWire
subtitle: beginner-level linux challenge  
tags: [linux]
odate: 29-03-2022
pdate: 
---

Bandit challenge from OverTheWire introduces what a simple challenge is to a beginner. It's about Linux, and prepares how to be effective with it. The goal is simple: there's Instruction in every level, follow through to get the flag viz the passowrd for the next level. Each level has instruction on particular subject. Complexity of instructions increases with level.

Using ssh, machine is accessed at the start - Level 0. At the beginning, basic file management and file manipulation commands are used. Commands include ls, pwd, cat, cd and find is used. I took more time with _find_ command and it's options. 

Specificity in the instructions compels to look into options of each command.

From Level 7, it's seeing internal file data and manipulationg it to display it to user's whim. Using commands like sort and grep. Data that's encoded by base64 or encrypted with rot13 are decoded or decrypted using relavent commands to get the flag. There's a hexdump on Level 12 which needs to be reversed. Then it turns out to be compressed or zip filed multiple times using commands like gzip, bzip2 and tar. The file type must be observed and relavant command must be used to get the flag by decompressing it multiple times. 

At Level 13, login via ssh private key is done into Level 14, and entering into a machine by submitting data (also using ssl encrytion) to a localhost, using commands like *nc* and *ncat*. Later checking on different ports to see which of them are open (using *nmap*) and speaking ssl. The one that does provides RSA private key as flag for the next level 17.

Login to Level 17 using RSA private key, where difference in data among 2 files end up being the flag for the next level.

Level 18 shows that connecting to the shell is not possible normally even with password, which compels user to force open up the terminal for the level. options for ssh command is explored and seen. 

level 19: ssh bandit19@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220
IueksS7Ubh8G3DCwVzrTd8rAVOwq3M5x

Level 19, binary file is executed to look into file system as the next user bandit20 to get the flag. running the file shows that userID is set to be bandit20 to access the file.

20 -> GbKksEFF4yrVs6il55v6gwY5aVje5f0j

Level 20, needs to be done with 2 simulatenous sessions. One session with outputting level20 password using nc onto localhost on a known port. Another session with the bin file that connects to localhost on a port, when outputting data matches with data seen by bin file run on known port -> it sends the flag.

21 -> gE269g2h3mw3pwgrj0Ha9Uoqen1c9DGr

newer version of this