---
layout: post
title: Stuxnet worm
subtitle: report write-up on Stuxnet worm (a book can be written on this)
tags: [write-up]
odate: 20-12-2022
pdate: 29-12-2022
---
# Stuxnet

Stuxnet is a worm - a self replicating standalone malware that spreads itself to other compters. It was first discovered in mid-June 2010 by VirusBlokAda based in Belarus, later confirmed by Microsoft that the worm was targeting Windows PCs that managed large-scale industrial control systems in manufacturing and utility firms.

Iran was the hardest hit, believed to be used to attack supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems and cause substantial damage to Iran's Nuclear Program since Nov 2007 and estimated to be under development since 2005 when Iran was still setting up it's Uranium Enrichment Facility.

## Involvement of State Actors
Categorized as the work of an Advanced Persistant Threat (APT), it was the most sophisticated malware ever seen by the world in 2010, exploiting not one but four zero-day flaws, which was unheard of. The attack code seemed legitimate because the people behind Stuxnet had stolen at least two signed digital certificates. The malware, which weighed in a nearly half a megabyte -- an astounding size, written in multiple languages, including C, C++ and other object-oriented languages.

Experts from Symantec and Kaspersky Lab state that there are so many different types of execution needs that it's clear it is a team of people with varied backgrounds, from the rootkit side to the database side to writing exploits.

Although neither countries have publically admitted it, it's widely believed that the cyberweapon was jointly built by US and Israel in a collaborative effort known as Operation Olympic Games. It was later confirmed anonymously by US state department officials. Even after software security companies discovered Stuxnet loose on the Internet in 2010, causing concern among U.S. officials, US President Obama secretly ordered the operation continued and authorized the use of several variations of the computer virus.

They further clarified it was first developed during the George W. Bush administration and was geared toward damaging Iran’s nuclear capability gradually while sowing confusion among Iranian scientists about the cause of mishaps at a nuclear plant.

## Utilization
The use of the cyberweapon — malware designed to infiltrate and damage systems run by computers — was supposed to make the Iranians think that their engineers were incapable of running an enrichment facility.

“The idea was to string it out as long as possible,” said one participant in the operation. “If you had wholesale destruction right away, then they generally can figure out what happened, and it doesn’t look like incompetence.”

## Operation

1. Infection \
Stuxnet is typically introduced to the target environment via an infected USB flash drive, thus crossing any air gap. It enters a system via a USB stick and proceeds to infect all machines running Windows. By brandishing a digital certificate that seems to show that it comes from a reliable company, the worm is able to evade automated-detection systems.

2. Search \
Stuxnet then checks whether a given machine is part of  the targeted industrial control system made by Siemens. Such systems are deployed in Iran to run high-spped centrifuges that help to enrich nuclear fuel

3. Update \
If system configuration requirements are not met and it's not the target, it lays dormant in the infected computer and network; preventing each infected computer from spreading the worm to more than three others, and to erase itself on 24 June 2012. It attempts to access the internet to check and download a latest version of itself.

4. Compromise \
The worm then compromises the target system's logic controllers, exploiting zero day vulnerabilities.

5. Control \
In the beginning, Stuxnet spies on the operations of the targeted system. Then it uses the info it has gathered to take control of the centrifuges, making them spin themselves to failure gradually, inciting confusion.

6. Deceive and Destroy \
Meanwhile, it provides false feed-back to the outside controllers, ensuring that they won't know what's going wrong until it's too late to do anything about it.

## Contents
Stuxnet has three modules: 
1. a worm that executes all routines related to the main payload of the attack
2. a link file that automatically executes the propagated copies of the worm
3. a rootkit component responsible for hiding all malicious files and processes, to prevent detection of Stuxnet.

The worm consists of a layered attack against 3 different types of systems:
1. Windows OS \
Stuxnet used the Privilege Escalation vulnerabilities to gain administrative access to other PCs, sought out systems running the WinCC and PCS 7 SCADA management programs, hijacked them by Remote Code Execution (RCE) either the print spooler or MS08-067 bugs, then tried the default Siemens passwords to commandeer the SCADA software.

2. Siemens PCS 7, WinCC and STEP7 industrial software applications that run on Windows \
If both the configuration requirements are fulfilled, Stuxnet introduces the infected rootkit onto the PLC and Step7 software, modifying the code and giving unexpected commands to the PLC while returning a loop of normal operation system values back to the users.

3. One or more Siemens S7 PLCs \
Stuxnet required specific frequency converter drives to be attached to the targeted Siemens S7-300 system and it's associated modules. It only attacks those PLC systems with variable-frequency drives from two specific vendors - Vacon based is Finland and Fararo Paya based in Iran. Stuxnet installs malware into memory block DB890 of the PLC that monitors the Profibus messaging system.

When certain criteria are met, it periodically modifies the frequency to 1,410 Hz and then to 2 Hz and then to 1,064 Hz, and thus affects the operation of the connected motors by changing their rotational speed. It also installs rootkit on this system - first of it's kind - and masks changes in rotational speed in the monitoring systems

## Removal
Siemens has released a detection and removal tool for Stuxnet. Siemens recommends contacting customer support if an infection is detected and advises installing Microsoft updates for security vulnerabilities and prohibiting the use of third-party pen drives. Siemens also advised to immediately upgrade password access codes.