---
layout: post
title: 25 days of Cyber Security
subtitle: An initiation to cyber security with a 25 day challenge suite
tags: [THM, THM/25DaysXmas2020]
odate: 01-06-2022
fdate: 
pdate: 
---
This was an event on tryhackme for christmas 2020. Getting started w/ cybersecurity with the room, [25 days of Cybersecuirty](https://tryhackme.com/room/learncyberin25days)  to get a general idea about the field. To access the machines for each task in the room, VPN is used. There are tasks provided each day pertaining to a particular topic.

## Day 1 to 6 - Web Exp 
Day 1  `Web Exploitation` \
Material provided: About the web (internet), HTTP(S), Cookies \
Logging in w/ VPN, and accessed the website by it's IP address. Questions in the task are looking for cookies, (in browser tools of course) and reading more into them. and how they can be used to read. Then exploit it and gain access.

Day 2  `Web Exploitation` \
Material provided: GET parameters, URLs, file uploads. reverse shell, reverse shell listeners \
Standard HTTP method called GET and POST is briefed. Reverse shell script can be uploaded and executed as Remote Code Execution (RCE) with a reverse shell listener active. Access is obtained when the shell script is run. reading the required file as shown in question gives the final flag at the terminal with the netcat listener.

Day 3  `Web Exploitation` \
Materials provided: Authentication, default credentials, Dictionary attacks using burpsuite \
Using burpsuite to conduct a dictionary attack using the Intruder tool. Providing a set of keywords as username and password in the Intruder tool when the request is sent to the webpage should authenticate and login. Flag is available inside the account.

Day 4 `Web Exploitation` \
Materials Provided: Fuzzing, Intro to gobuster, wfuzz \
fuzzing is done using gobuster on target machine deployed and given wordlist.
`gobuster dir -u http:/<ip> -w wordlist_path -x .php` >> different dir are listed to be available there. 
more data required on the target machine since a flag has to be obtained, so wfuzz is used to find more about the file.
`wfuzz -c -z file,worlist_path -u http://<ip>/api<file_name>?date=FUZZ `
when the command is run, the parameters obtained will have certain characteristics where one of them were different. when that parameter (here it's a date) is provided as input, flag was obtained.

Day 5 `Web Exploitation` \
Materials Provided: SQL Injection, how they work, Login Bypass with SQLi, Blind SQLi, Union SQLi, SQLMap & BurpSuite \
simple bypass command is used to bypass login. `admin' or 1=1 --` 
burpsuite intercept is turned on and a random request is sent to capture the request packet.
sqlmap is run with the intercept data to dump data (provided here how to bypass the web-app firewall and database ms used is sqlite). Data obtained from the command result answers for each question are as seen in database.

Day 6 `Web Exploitation` \
Materials Provided: XSS, types, how to detect, mitigate \
answering some questions in this section are straight forward. OWASP ZAP application is launched and an automated scan is run on the target machine. Scan report is referred to answer other questions.

Moving on with other topics in the event, from Web exploitation the limelight is on Networking.

## Day 7 to 13 - Networking 
Day 7  `Networking` \
Materials: Protocols, TCP/IP data transfer, 3-way handshake, ip address, wireshark - filtering packets w/ search terms \
Each packet was opened on wireshark and accordingly to each question, the search bar was used to filter out some packets to search for flags. GET method is seen with `HTTP.request.method == GET` filter command and packet details are read to get respective flag. This is the case from 1st and 2nd Packet. \
The final question asks about wishlist -> file? the hint says so. The third packet is opened to observe and a packet (no. 395) under HTTP protocol length 10388 bytes has a zip file inside it. Exporting the file under File > Export Objects - HTTP >  christmas.zip >> Unzipping it and viewing the file `elf_mcskidy_wishlist.txt`, the final flag is obtained.

Day 8  `Networking` \
Materials: nmap, nse \
ran nmap scans on target machine with options: -Pn to check all open or otherwise ports on machine, -A to enable OS detection for flags in question. Under the same command, the info provided includes `http-title: TBFC&#39;s Internal Blog` in port 80/tcp open -- providing the last flag answer, the type of website it is to be used for: Blog

Day 9  `Networking` \
Materials: FTP file server \
basic walkthrough to access FTP server. Later, breaking in into the server by executing reverse shell script (misusing a misconfig) using the file in the server. 

Day 10  `Networking` \
Materials: samba server \
Starting up the Attackbox VM machine to access the materials write-up. And followed through and ran script and respective command enum4linux with it's options at taregt machine to get respective number of shares and users involved on the server. logged into each share to check which had no passwd. The Share without passwd was found out: tbfc-santa, and files inside was listed to be seen -> to get the dir left by Elf for Santa.  

Day 11  `Networking` \
Materials: priv esc, priv-esc enumeration\
<!--%%Dirtyc0w is a famous linux kernel exploit - will end up crashing the system/unstable state (last resort)%%-->
<!--%%refer numerous materials/cheatsheet to support checklists for enumerating priv esc -- g0tmi1k, payatu, PayloadAllTheThings %%-->
<!--%% command to find all executable with SUID permissions set 
find / -perm -u=s -type f 2>/dev/null %%-->
<!--%% There are scripts that make the action approachable - like LinuEnum, linpeas %%-->
Priv Esc felt nice to play with, which was also what they warned when explaining it. After logging in as the provided user, enumeration had to be done where all the executables with SUID permission to be seen. When the find command to check all the exec bin commands which have super user or root user priviliges, there were many. \
And the instructions were clear on looking at GTFObins too to exploit the binary. the bash exec has a simple command to run as shown from [source](https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/bash/#suid) : `bash -p`  \
which immediately gives root priv.

Day 12  `Networking`\
Materials: metasploit, web server exp - enumeration \
ran a nmap scan on remote host to get the data, on port 8080 there's a service running which is tomcat v9.0.17 which has a CVE called CVE-2019-0232. \
had to install metasploit to run the exploit on target machine \

search in metasploit with `search 2019-0232` and `use 0`: in the provided options 
and setting the config to: 
1. Running the metasploit on the set remote host (rhost) of target by providing the it's IP address
2. `set rhosts $targetIP` and set the lhost IP from wlp2s0 to tun0 (since connected via VPN)
3. `options` and `set targeturi cgi-bin/elfwhacker.bat` and `run` the exploit script here 
4. meterpreter is opened: `shell` to open the shell. It's a windows machine - respective powershell commands must be used to find the flag1.txt file 

Day 13  `Networking` \
Materials: guided CTF \
This was a straightforward guided CTF, where the commands were laid out and intentions clear. PS: I love John Hammond.

## Day 14 - OSINT 
At long last, TCM's Room! Cute poem at the beginning.

Day 14 `Open Source INTelligence` \
This was easily the most fun and most creepy stuff I've done. Information hopping from one place to another, finding more about clues here in the account profile, comments and tweets were very interesting. Especially, the image metadata viewer - the websites were removed and had to scramable to other places where data could be obtained.

The pawned aspect of the mail was difficult to pinpoint, but was done notheless. The map part felt super creepy and super slippery yet missing out specifically in the number of street there, cause there were multiple hotels of the same name around. But could pinpoint to get the answer.

This room felt like I've done all of them a long time ago.

## Day 15 & 16 - Python 
Day 15 `Scripting` \
Materials: Python, Variables, operators, booleans, If (conditional) and for (repetitive) loops \
The absolute basics are provided to look into the language. The questions at the ned are inquisitive and need research and practical trial before answering. They also show in a needled fashion how the langugae internally works.

Day 16 `Scripting` \
Materials: mini CTF w/ all the previous knowledge \
Run an nmap on the target machine to understand what it is. Port 80 is open on http. The IP address is used to see the link. Viewing at the source shows nothing new in links, but the content nods at using python to observe hidden links in the source code.\
Previous room provided python code to "extract all links from a webpage". Using it and running links can be listed. re-reading the code and sharpening it, all links can be obtained. 

As the instructions point out, api_key must be properly used by their characteristics: odd num, between 1, 100. requests.get can be called onto $IP/api/{api_key} where a continous loop of api_key set using range(1,100,2)

Invalid keys are shown that it's invalid, but at api_key=57, there's a hit.\
```
.
.
.
api_key 51
{"item_id":51,"q":"Error. Key not valid!"}
api_key 53
{"item_id":53,"q":"Error. Key not valid!"}
api_key 55
{"item_id":55,"q":"Error. Key not valid!"}
api_key 57
{"item_id":57,"q":"Winter Wonderland, Hyde Park, London."}
```

## Day 17 to 19 - Rev Engg
Assembly language gave me nightmares in college, but there's a kannada proverb. _"Until you learn, it seems to be a god's knowlegde. After you learn it, it's a monkey's knowledge"_

Day 17 `Reverse Engg` \
Materials: Intro to x86-64 assembly language, Instruction set, file usage and manipulation, Binary analysis using radare2 \
The software radare2 is a framework used to rev engg and analyzing binaries. Each command is used to execute step by step to observe the binary behaviour on each step. Assembly language program is read and understood where each line functions as. The flags ask for each register value in different lines.

Day 18 `Reverse Engg` \
Materials: diassembling a .net application using ILSpy or Dotpeek \
Logging into target machine with provided cred using remmina using RDP, there's the ILSpy application shortcut to open. Open TBFC_APP inside using ILSpy and looking into the code writen in C++ using .net framework, the flags are found. The main frame is the window form received when the TBFC_APP is opened. And finding more data inside the numerous classes provides required flags.

## Day 20 to 23 - BlueTeaming
Day 19 `Web Exploitation` \
Materials: Server Side Request Forgery \
Guided walkthrough to conduct SSRF attack by changing the hostname, ports, DNS subdomains specified in URL to get different screenshots of internal resources responses. 

One day late, but we'll get it done anyway..

Day 20 `Blue Teaming` \
Materials: powershell (file finding, reading) \
basics of powershell: using the shell to get files, directories, hidden files, reading files and reading specific file pattern using commands like `Get-ChildItem` (ls), `Get-Content` (cat), `Set-Location` (cd), and `Search-String` (grep).

Day 21 `Blue Teaming` \
Materials: pwsh, remmina (forensics) \
Guided process in the material and Logging into remote machine, there's a exec file w/ it's said hash value which is incorrect. Both values are checked by `Get-Content` and `Get-FileHash -Algorith MD5 deebee.exe`. \
string tool is used to inspect binary using `c:\Tools\strings64.exe -accepteula deebee.exe`.\
The alternate data stream can be viewed on pwsh and it can be seen using `Get-Item -Path deebee.exe -Stream *` >> where streamname is changed to hidedb. \
To launch the hidden file, the windows management instrumentation tool `wmic` command is used and the hidden file is launched within Alternate Data Stream. 

Day 22 `Blue Teaming` \
Materials: cyberchef (decode passwd manager values) \
There's someone logged into th system and has left out clues to move ahead with the room. The folder name looks too sus. Using cyberchef to paste and run the string w/ `magic`, there's a phrase called `grichwashere` using maching ops `base64` which might be the keepass passwd. Checking each different passwd stored for different values and looking at hints, (first one was from hex, eMail - entities (HTML Entitiy) and last server one - eval String.fromCharCode (x2) (javascript)) one can easily get all the flags.

Day 23 `Blue Teaming` \
Materials: file restoration \
After the malware attack, the services of Task Scheduler and DIsk Management tool are utilized to view which scheduled task is active. Common observations in the system are most of the flags. The backup disk partition is activated and the hidden files' backup is opened and restored. The data within the file is the last flag.

## Day 24 - Last Day 
Day 24 `Final Challenge`
Materials: client side filters, shell upgrade and stabilize, mysql client, priv esc w/ lxd
Scanning by nmap, gobuster, pass an exploit in attackbox db as jpeg extension file but php script to open reverse shell. Use nc to listen on specific port and get a rev shell. Then horizontal priv esc from mysql client to find the particular user with creds in a db. Login to other user, observe vulnerability i.e., lxd and priv escalate using that vuln (as provided in the day's materials) and obtain root shell.

## Closing Notes

This is easily one of the best things a beginner can hope for. All of the introductory subjects in one place, with a beautiful flow of subject matter to aid a begginer's understanding. God bless the guys who made this!
