---
layout: post
title: 25DaysXmas2020 - Day 20 to 23 - BlueTeaming 
subtitle: defensive perspective
tags: [THM]
odate: 19-05-2022
fdate: 19-05-2022
pdate: 19-05-2022
---
One day late, but we'll get it done anyway..

Day 20 `Blue Teaming` \
Materials: powershell (file finding, reading) \
basics of powershell: using the shell to get files, directories, hidden files, reading files and reading specific file pattern using commands like `Get-ChildItem` (ls), `Get-Content` (cat), `Set-Location` (cd), and `Search-String` (grep).

Day 21 `Blue Teaming` \
Materials: pwsh, remmina (forensics) \
Guided process in the material and Logging into remote machine, there's a exec file w/ it's said hash value which is incorrect. Both values are checked by `Get-Content` and `Get-FileHash -Algorith MD5 deebee.exe`. \
string tool is used to inspect binary using `c:\Tools\strings64.exe -accepteula deebee.exe`.\
The alternate data stream can be viewed on pwsh and it can be seen using `Get-Item -Path deebee.exe -Stream *` >> where streamname is changed to hidedb. \
To launch the hidden file, the windows management instrumentation tool `wmic` command is used and the hidden file is launched within Alternate Data Stream. 

Day 22 `Blue Teaming` \
Materials: cyberchef (decode passwd manager values) \
There's someone logged into th system and has left out clues to move ahead with the room. The folder name looks too sus. Using cyberchef to paste and run the string w/ `magic`, there's a phrase called `grichwashere` using maching ops `base64` which might be the keepass passwd. Checking each different passwd stored for different values and looking at hints, (first one was from hex, eMail - entities (HTML Entitiy) and last server one - eval String.fromCharCode (x2) (javascript)) one can easily get all the flags.

Day 23 `Blue Teaming` \
Materials: file restoration \
After the malware attack, the services of Task Scheduler and DIsk Management tool are utilized to view which scheduled task is active. Common observations in the system are most of the flags. The backup disk partition is activated and the hidden files' backup is opened and restored. The data within the file is the last flag.

## Inference
Powershell is as useful on Windows as terminal is on Linux. Actions in blue team vary but here they are understanding the 'anomaly', putting out fires, decoding (guess it's just in CTFs) and reactive measure to restore operations.