---
layout: post
title: 25DaysXmas2020 - Day 15 & 16 - Python 
subtitle: Scripting
tags: [THM]
odate: 17-05-2022
fdate: 17-05-2022
pdate: 17-05-2022
---
This room felt like I've done all of them a long time ago.

Day 15 `Scripting` \
Materials: Python, Variables, operators, booleans, If (conditional) and for (repetitive) loops \
The absolute basics are provided to look into the language. The questions at the ned are inquisitive and need research and practical trial before answering. They also show in a needled fashion how the langugae internally works.

Day 16 `Scripting` \
Materials: mini CTF w/ all the previous knowledge \
Run an nmap on the target machine to understand what it is. Port 80 is open on http. The IP address is used to see the link. Viewing at the source shows nothing new in links, but the content nods at using python to observe hidden links in the source code.\
Previous room provided python code to "extract all links from a webpage". Using it and running links can be listed. re-reading the code and sharpening it, all links can be obtained. 

As the instructions point out, api_key must be properly used by their characteristics: odd num, between 1, 100. requests.get can be called onto $IP/api/{api_key} where a continous loop of api_key set using range(1,100,2)

Invalid keys are shown that it's invalid, but at api_key=57, there's a hit.\
```
.
.
.
api_key 51
{"item_id":51,"q":"Error. Key not valid!"}
api_key 53
{"item_id":53,"q":"Error. Key not valid!"}
api_key 55
{"item_id":55,"q":"Error. Key not valid!"}
api_key 57
{"item_id":57,"q":"Winter Wonderland, Hyde Park, London."}
```

### Inference
Using Python, a HLL for scripting purposes can be used to achieve numerous objectives with simple goals. 